---
layout: page
title:  Feature Slate Harrier
permalink: /develop/development-plans/harrier
---

#### Feature Slate Harrier

 
#### []()Introduction

This
 document is designed to briefly detail new features to which we can 
choose to commit in Dawn Harrier 1.4. A discussion will follow as which 
features should be worked on in Dawn Harrier and features added to Jira 
sprints as decided later in the development cycle. The estimated 
development times quoted are not elapsed time, just hours coding; they 
do not allow for meetings etc. 

* * *

##### []()Large Features

* * *

##### []()Medium Features

### []()Expose more of IPlottingSystem to the Jython layer

The
 IPlottingSystem API is rich and allows annotations and regions to be 
created with ease. These features are not available to the dnp.plot 
object in the python API. Using the JMXPlottingSystem the Jython later 
can support all these operations. 

### []()ImageJ Plugin Support

It
 may be possible to support existing ImageJ plugins by reproducing DAWN 
bindings to the most commonly used parts of the ImageJ API. For instance
 an ImageJ PlotWindow would map to a DAWN window with a plot on it etc. 
There may be an import step in which DAWN replaces the import statements
 and recompiles the plugin.

### []()Increased Options for Video Export

The video export could support more options such as:  
1. 1D slices  
2. Showing axis information in the caption of each frame  
3. 3D surface (with a constant colour map so that colour scheme is not lost)

### []()Slice Tool API and Harmonization of Slicing Components

Currently
 you can add a plotting tool or create an ATab class which integrates 
directly into the DExplore perspective. Developers should be able to 
contribute slice tools just as they do plot tools using extension 
points. These tools should have access to the underlying data and get 
and set the current slice. They should have the ability to 
provide/replace the UI in the plot (contribute a custom plot part which 
uses the stack layout in plotting system). So for instance with the 
Hyper3D plot tool, an action would appear on the slice component toolbar
 which when pressed changes the plotting system to two plotting systems 
for the Hyper3D mathematics. The slice component would be moved to a new
 plugin called org.dawnsci.slicing and eventually the DExplore component
 will be moved there. They will then be gradually merged to a new 
universal design for slicing data.

### []()Expression Based Fitting Tool

Add a tool which allows the user to enter free expressions (using JEXL) to fit functions in 1D (and 2D?).

### []()Derivative Tool Upgrade and Fourier Transform Tool

Upgrade
 the derivative tool to use the new filter API or use the trace before 
plotting event. Using the same mechanism add a Fourier Transform Tool.

### []()Filter By Expression Tool

Using
 JEXL and the new filter API create a tool which allows a free 
expression to process plotted data. The user many enter several filter 
expressions.

### []()Zimba Style Slicing Tool

If
 the new slicing API, above task, is created this will be a slicing tool
 which runs the Zimba algorithm. This algorithm aligns stacks of images 
using a fourier transform. (TODO Check if Zimba is patented.)

* * *

##### []()Small Features

### []()Plotting tool sub-menus

There
 should be an extension point to add sub-menus to plotting tools, for 
instance 'Profile' for the profile tools and 'Function' for Peak/Line 
fitting. This makes the large tool set slightly more scalable. We might 
add a searchable tools view for choosing tools too.

### []()1D Plotting Scalability

1D
 plotting currently scales up to order hundreds of thousands of data 
points. These data can often resolve to a point at the same pixel. The 
plotting system should ignore points at pixels which have already been 
drawn. This will make very large datasets possible to plot.

### []()Surface Plot Speed Up

The
 surface plot windowing could be speeded up in the same way we do with 
the profile tools (in fact maybe it even could be a kind of profile 
too...). This is by downsampling the updates during the drag and only 
doing the full update when they stop dragging.

### []()_Custom Code - User Defined Extensions to DAWN_

- **File Loader**

As a developer you can easily add a file loader but users working inside DAWN cannot add code which will load arbitrary files.

- **Plot Function**

See [http://jira.diamond.ac.uk/browse/SCI-1421](http://jira.diamond.ac.uk/browse/SCI-1421)

Plot function should:

1. Return a value for y given x and y original.

2. Return a value for y[] given x[] and y[] original.

3. Return a value for intensity given intensity, x and y original values.

Delivered
 using Jython or Python or Java interfaces with extension points (not 
sure what is more user friendly but ImageJ gets away with Java for 
extensions so might be ok and would be much easier to package/reuse and 
faster). Matt G can help if a Java interface with extension points is 
needed.

This would be similar in functionality to IGOR Pro:

[http://www.wavemetrics.com/products/igorpro/dataanalysis/curvefitting/userdefined.htm](http://www.wavemetrics.com/products/igorpro/dataanalysis/curvefitting/userdefined.htm)

- **Custom Actor**

We
 already allow custom actors but the ability to create an actor on the 
fly inside Dawn and deploy it into the live version is required.

- **Custom User Interface**
The ability to code your own alternative view part or editor inside DAWN which has access to the plotting.

- **ImageJ**
Allow users to import and define ImageJ plugins.
