---
layout: page
title:  Feature Slate Monster
permalink: /develop/development-plans/monster
---

#### Feature Slate Monster

## []()Introduction

This document is designed to briefly detail new features to
which we can choose to commit in Dawn 1.1. A discussion will follow as which
features should be worked on in Dawn 1.1. The estimated development times
quoted are not elapsed time, just hours coding; they do not allow for meetings
etc.

##### []()* Completed in Monster

##### []()* Not planning to do

##### []()** Carried forward to future releases.

## []()Detailed Design

##### []()Large Changes

### []()PlotServer Redesign *

This feature would be to allow IPlottingSystem to pass over
JMX (RMI version) to be available to the PlotServer. This gives complete access
to new plotting features in a remote context solving a number of small feature
requests in the Jira system. This would replace the GuiBean and DataBean. It
would allow any editor plot to be coupled to python as its IPlottingSystem interface
would directly pass through, available from the service.  The existing plotter python (dnp.plot(...)
etc.) would continue to be fully supported, see diagram. New features would be
available in the PlotServer and the python developers could decide how to
expose these in the python API. This design results in lower maintenance costs
of Dawn and ease of learning for new developers because the Java interface to
plotting is standardized. 

**Estimate:  24h            Status: New feature**

 

**Plotting API**
     (IPlottingSystem) GUI

### []()Workflow Upgrade**

We require the workflow tool to be upgraded to be more user
friendly. At the moment the log file is used to develop workflows and once they
are running, it can be hard to diagnose failure. It is thought that upgrading
the ease of use now, will result in a larger user base for this feature. The
main areas of the upgrade are as follows:

#### []()Debug or ‘Stepping Mode’ **

Ability to ‘debug’ workflow in
the UI. This would mean coupling the Passerelle debug (available with the event
director model) with the Eclipse RCP debug framework. Using the RCP debug
extensions would mean pydev and Passerelle debugging would be linked i.e. break
points would be hit in either system during the debugging of one workflow.

**Estimate: 24h             Status:
New feature, Isencia have had further ideas**

#### []()Dry run ability.**

 This is having a more user friendly/flexible
‘mock’ system than currently available. For instance taking actors out of the
loop, they grey out. Disconnecting and reconnecting tango motors, data
collection scripts run in a test or real environment. Validation of spec would
also be good for those writing data collection actors in spec.

**Estimate: 8-24h (task needs better definition)    Status: New feature**

#### []()User friendly workflow development **

with better error handling. At
the moment when developing a workflow you have to use the log file. Instead the
user should see and actor go red and a user understandable message be shown
with an additional link to the right part of the log stack for experts. There
should be a tighter integration with eclipse parts – for instance the eclipse
error log. This is linked to debug as well in that it makes it easier and more
precise in feel when you develop a workflow.

**Estimate: 8-24h (task needs better definition)    Status: New feature**

#### []()Traffic Light Colour Scheme **

A traffic light colour
methodology applied everywhere, green running, amber stalled, red error. So
actors when selected and running would be green, user interface actors in JMX
would be amber while waiting for input, actors which fail would be red. Actions
would also be colour coded this way.

**Estimate: 6-8h                        Status: New feature**

### []()New Workflow Actors

New actors available in the workflow. As follows:

#### []()Tool Action                  *(partly)

Ability to drive any 2D or 1D
tool, for instance azimuthal integration, box profile etc. from the workflow
using a specific actor.

**Estimate: 4-6h/tool   Status: New
Feature**

#### []()Improved System Command Actor(s) **

Actors to complete substitution
into one or more files, run a process and then complete extraction of one or
more result files. This would allow arbitrary system processes to be run, for
instance Alun batch script jobs to be easily. The replace and extract actors
would be general purpose and come with a custom editor similar to an edna
actor.

**Estimate: 20h                         Status: New Feature**

### []()R-script Actor **

Ability to call R-scripts from
workflows and reuse existing mathematics in that language. Java integration
with R is claimed to be good and products like KNIME already support this
(could also support KNIME actors but these have the actor level hard coded into
Swing). 

**Estimate: 8h               Status:
New Feature**

#### []()Taverna Support **

Ability to call taverna workflows
in a similar way to how composite actors work. If the RCP plugins for taverna
are ready when this feature is coded it may be possible to have a taverna editor
and good integration.

[http://dev.mygrid.org.uk/wiki/display/TNG/Preview+1](http://dev.mygrid.org.uk/wiki/display/TNG/Preview+1)

**Estimate: 8h               Status:
New Feature**

### []()Deploy Workflows as Actions in Editors and Workbench **

This feature allows any .moml file to be reused as an action
in a special menu on any data file. When the data file is opened the user may
run the algorithm without having to open and run the Passerelle user file.
There will be a few deployed by default such as background image subtraction,
medium of flat field images, azimuthal integration, packing of image folders
into hdf5 files etc. as available.

Creators of a workflow will be able to right click on the
file and open a wizard to choose how the action should be deployed. The
workflow runs without UI interaction as the editor provides the data. It has
also been suggested that there be an option to automatically apply the workflow
when an image is opened or viewed in the image viewer. This is a general
feature and has wide applications in image and 1D data manipulation.

**Estimate: 32h   **   **Status:
New feature**

### []()Dawn Web Interface (DWI) Using RAP **

The new plotting is dawn using draw2d which, with some
modifications to existing Dawn source code, is available in the RAP the web
interface. The DWI feature would allow remote log in back to the visit space using
fedid and password followed by the viewing of data collected. The RAP
application would support the project explorer for the remote file space (the
visit) and allow the editor parts used to visualise the data to run correctly
(double click and open image). This has an advantage that in order to be viewed
the data does not have to be downloaded only the current image created from it.
In later Dawn releases, DWI could be extended to support more of the
functionality of Dawn, tools and ipython for instance. A server (hardware) would
be required to support the RAP application and the feature would be supported
in a ‘Pre-release’ prototype format for Dawn 1.1.

**Estimate:  80h            Status: New feature**

** **

##### []()Small / Medium Changes

 

#### []()Rotation ability for selections **

Add ability for regions of interest to rotate fully (for
instance rectangle). Perhaps a tool for manipulating rotation.

**Estimate:  8h  Status: 
New Feature**

#### []()Macintosh Support (first steps)               * partly

The first part of the work required to support MacOS -
compiling CBF libraries. This will allow most of dawn features to work on Mac
as HDF5 is already working. The 3D viewer (jogl) will likely not be included in
this step. Graeme Winter has offered to compile the JNI C code on Mac.

**Estimate:  8h  Status: 
Underway**

#### []()Show Intensity Values Tool    *

A tool with the ability to show numerical values in a table
after a box selection. In addition, ability to create more than one box table
and compare values of intensity.

**Estimate:  8h  Status: 
New Feature**

### []()Toolbar Position **

The plotting toolbar is long, for instance the zoom actions
and the image tools are many. It would be good to allow coolbar docking around
plots meaning users can click and drag toolbars to the side of the plot. For
instance the image tools may automatically appear to the side of the plot
unless switched off.

**Estimate:  ~10h          Status:  New Feature**

#### []()EMBL Spot tool -&gt; Dawn Image Tool *?

Make available the EMBL spot highlighting algorithm to a
Dawn tool (i.e. available the same way as the sector, box profiles, masking
etc. under the image tools). The tool part would have the UI for controlling
the algorithm, see the masking tool for a similar paradigm. It would be better
if EMBL did this.

**Estimate:  ~4h            Status:  New Feature**

 

### []()Zoom Position Tool  *

An image tool similar to a feature already available with
the fable image viewer which shows a rectangle region zoomed. It will be
possible to move and resize the region and the zoom tool view will update its
zoomed image. It is technically possible to support multiple regions by using
tabs on the zoom view but this is not suggested for the first version.

**Estimate:  ~10h          Status:  Underway considering port to 1.0**

### []() 

### []()Open File Loading *

One of the neat features of Fable was that you can write
your own loaders in python. This means any ascii or unusual image format is
supported. This feature would allow the LoaderFactory to read Eclipse extension
points for user defined loaders. This would mean Java and python loaders could
be plugged into it. The python loaders would be called using rpc, work in
cpython and conform to a given interface. The Java loaders already have a Java
interface they must implement.

**Estimate: 6h               Status:
First version in repository**

### []()Colour Scale for Intensity **

This feature was discussed for Dawn 1.0. There was hope that
the scale already existing in SWT XY-Graph would be available in time for Dawn
1.0. The feature is to provide a third axis apart from the positional ones
correlating colour used with intensity value.

**Estimate:  8h  Status: New feature (maybe there will be a free
version of this)**

#### []()Graph Legend Move **

Optionally place the graph legend on the left instead of at
the bottom. API Change to plotting.

**Estimate: 4h               Status: New Feature**

#### []()3D Support for IPlottingSystem ** (some major refactoring work completed)

It would be cheaper and more functional to support in 3D
directly in rather than the current ‘half-way’ version implemented for 1.0
(certain areas may support 3D by swapping widget at the moment). This would
mean a short investigation into the best 3D plotting available, for us likely
ImageJ or DatasetPlotter (in house development). Followed by code to support
the methods createPlot3D(...) and updatePlot3D(...) in IPlottingSystem.

**Estimate: 10-12h        Status: New Feature**

#### []()History Tool *

Tool for viewing and adding plots to a history. The history
would be static allowing data to be compared between files. The tool would
allow images to be overlayed using a function.

**Estimate: 8h               Status: Underway**

#### []()D-spacing Tool            * (but in the form of dViewer product based on Dawn)

Tool for calculating the d spacing. It works like a line
profile tool and does a fit on its own line and shows a d spacing calculation.

**Estimate: 16h             Status: New Feature**

#### []()Masking Upgrade  **

This idea is to allow masks to be saveable and choosable
from a list so that a user can create a mask and apply it to many images. The
first version will allow masks to be saved to file. Later the concept of an
active mask may be introduced so that and image loaded of the correct size will
have the mask applied automatically.

            **Estimate: 8h   Status:
New Feature**

#### []()Data Set Memory *

PyMCA and other tools remember the last data path extracted
when selecting many files in a series. In addition one can set the template
data selection (path to dataset and slice) for a file which then is the default
data extract action when a new file is opened. 

**Estimate: 8h   Status: Started**

#### []()Maxima, Minima, Points of Inflection finding **

There is currently a peak fitting tool which fits a function
to a peak. In fact very often required is an algorithm to mark maxima, minima
and points of inflection in 1D data (the first of these being the most useful).
This does not fit a function and actually puts an annotation on the real data
at the point of a local maximum (for instance). This work should take the form
of:

1.    
An algorithm which can be driven separately to
the UI (from one of the maths team, Peter or Mark)

2.    
A UI tool similar to the fitting tool

**Estimate: 8h UI, 8-16h algorithm                        Status:
New Feature**

#### []()Function fitting tool  * (polynomial fitting only)

A new fitting tool is required allowing line, spline and
polynomials to be fitted to 1D plots. A new line fitting tool will be produced
with a common super class to the peak fitting which has a modified table
showing line fit coefficients instead of peak positions.

**Estimate Numerics: 0-2h                   Status:
New Feature**

**Estimate UI: 8h                                  Status:
New Feature**
